However, the literature is replete with complex and often conradictory findings. While one article touts the word processor's abilityto entice basic writiers into making major, deep revisions, the next essay bemoans "smokescreen" revision, or the tendency to make only surface changes, as the word processor's major downfall; still another peice of research tells u that the traditionl linear three-stage mdel of writing (prewriting, writing, and revision) is gone forever.

Ellis, Shelley. “Word Processors and the Developmental Writer: A Teamwork of Tradition and Technology.” Rocky Mountain Review of Language and Literature, vol. 49, no. 1, 1995, pp. 55–66. JSTOR, www.jstor.org/stable/1347932.

  Word processing will not magically alleviate basic writers' perceptions of the writing
 task as overwhelming; however, it may serve to aid in developing a more fluid approach to
 writing. "Fooling around* is just what basic writers need to do on their way to becoming
 experienced. They need to break their rigid model of composing and become able to play
 with language, to become less inhibited and more comfortable with print. Rodrigues
 (1987) also reports that her students' apprehension about writing decreased when she
 introduced word processing into her basic writing classes. When interviewed, one
 student reported that "he liked writing with computers because he forgot to worry about
 what he was saying. He just enjoyed seeing the words appear" (p. 338). Another said that
 "he wasn't afraid to express himself because he knew that he could immediately delete
 any sentences which embarrassed him" (p. 338)

  In our research (Williamson & Fence, 1989), we found that college student writers
 develop different styles when using word processing to revise. Some students use a more
 linear approach where they write a rather sketchy first draft and then go back over their
 texts to flesh it out. Another group of students in the study utilized a more intermittent
 style, where they stop periodically, usually at the ends of paragraphs, to scroll back over
 the screenful of text they have just composed and engage in the revision while rereading
 what they had previously written. The third type of reviser, the recursive reviser, fiddles
 with variations at the cursor site, trying out two or three versions of a smaller chunk of
 text, a word, phase or sentence, before going on. Hawisher ( 1989) even suggests that the
 computer changes the writing process enough that writing tasks app

 Williamson, Michael M., and Penny Pence. “Computers in the Basic Writing Classroom Part II: Word Processing.” Research and Teaching in Developmental Education, vol. 7, no. 2, 1991, pp. 101–110. JSTOR, www.jstor.org/stable/42801807.

  two levels of revision, researchers have found that able writers tend to make
 more "surface" or minor changes when they use the word processor, but little
 evidence has been found to indicate that able writers make more of the
 important "meaning changes" when they use the word processor. Moreover,
 it must be remembered that increase in either surface or meaning changes
 does not automatically result in increase in quality. Changes in punctuation
 (surface) or in focus (meaning) can just as easily worsen a paper's quality as
 improve it

 McAllister, Carole, and Richard Louth. “The Effect of Word Processing on the Quality of Basic Writers' Revisions.” Research in the Teaching of English, vol. 22, no. 4, 1988, pp. 417–427. JSTOR, www.jstor.org/stable/40171196.

 2. Revision by text editor had little or no advantage over the traditional
 method for most of the domains of a text; surprisingly, the traditional
 method was superior for the larger domains, such as the idea cluster
 and the para

 6. Even though there was some increase in the writers' efficiency and ex-
 perimentation, the use of a word processor for revising purposes did
 not enhance the quality of their written products. This would seem to
 reflect that their revision strategies centered on words, phrases, and
 clauses, and were, therefore, concerned primarily with matters of dic-
 tion and with changes which were sometimes minimal, often trivial, and
 occasionally detrimental. Editing in the smaller domains does not seem
 to add much to the effectiveness or quality of the final pro

 Collier, Richard M. “The Word Processor and Revision Strategies.” College Composition and Communication, vol. 34, no. 2, 1983, pp. 149–155. JSTOR, www.jstor.org/stable/357402.

 As print assimed an increasingly prevelaged position composition classrooms during the late nineteenth century and throughout the twentieth century, aurality was both subsumed by, and defined in opposition to, writing...

 A single-minded focus on print in composition classrooms ignores the importance of aurality and other composing modalities

  Another persistent artifact of aurality in the composition classroom has been
 the reliance on metaphors of voice in writing

In such articles, faculty
 talked about the fact that their taped oral responses to students' written work
 allowed for a clearer acknowledgment of the "rhetorical nature" of response
 to a piece of writing, because remarks could be "more detailed and expansive"
 (Meilen and Sommers 11-12) and un

 and testing practices.23 Lecturing, for instance,
 remained a relatively popular form of teaching in many composition classrooms
 through the end of the century and beyond - despite a growing agreement that
 classrooms should be centered around students' opportunities to practice
 composing 

 Selfe, Cynthia L. “The Movement of Air, the Breath of Meaning: Aurality and Multimodal Composing.” College Composition and Communication, vol. 60, no. 4, 2009, pp. 616–663. JSTOR, www.jstor.org/stable/40593423.

 Though the process approach was first formulated before the advent of word
 processing, the rise of the process approach in writing pedagogy coincided with
 the rise of word processing on the personal computer. For example, Flower and
 Hayes published their seminal article "A Cognitive Process Theory of Writing" in
 1980, shortly before the first Macintosh was marketed in 1984. The process ap
 proach made central to writing pedagogy the term "draft," which is drawn from
 the world of paper and pen or typewriter ("draft" is etymologically linked to the
 term "draw"?a physical action on some material). With the process approach,
 students began turning in what came (through the influence of that pedagogy)
 to be termed "your draft" or "final draft" instead of "your paper" or essay, and so
 on. 

 Most students only revise by revising at the sentence level!!!!!!

 Dave, Anish M., and David R. Russell. “Drafting and Revision Using Word Processing by Undergraduate Student Writers: Changing Conceptions and Practices.” Research in the Teaching of English, vol. 44, no. 4, 2010, pp. 406–434. JSTOR, www.jstor.org/stable/25704888. (Lots of interesting stuff in here)

  As the semester progressed, I observed various ways in which the computer
 was affecting my students' progress. First of all, the computer seemed to help
 reduce the students' writing apprehension. Students who at the beginning of
 the semester wrote (in early journal entries) of being nervous about writing
 showed no anxiety at all as the course progressed. For instance, one student
 who couldn't even think of an idea for a journal entry on the second day of
 class blossomed when he began writing on the computer. He explained in his
 journal that he wasn't afraid to express himself because he knew that he could
 immediately delete any sentences which embarrassed him. Another student
 said that he liked writing with computers because he forgot to worry about
 what he was saying. He just enjoyed seeing the word

 Rodrigues, Dawn. “Computers and Basic Writers.” College Composition and Communication, vol. 36, no. 3, 1985, pp. 336–339. JSTOR, www.jstor.org/stable/357978.

  One student com
 mented, "When I use a word processor, I can let my creativity show and not
 have to worry about writer's cramp," while another explained, "I don't feel as
 pressured. If I have started something that really doesn't need to be in the
 paper, or I have misinterpreted something, I can easily get rid of it or turn
 things around so they make sense." Athird suggested, "The computer allows
 you to just type in thoughts as they pop into your head without thinking about
 what the sentence structure is or if it sounds correct. Revisions are so easy
 that sentence structure and spelling can be looked at and corrected later."

 Boiarsky, Carolyn. “Fluency, Fluidity, and Word Processing.” Journal of Advanced Composition, vol. 11, no. 1, 1991, pp. 123–133. JSTOR, www.jstor.org/stable/20865766.


  But I'm afraid freewriting is now domesticated in the sad sense of
 that word: watered down; tamed. I think a majority of teachers and
 theorists feel: "We need to introduce freewriting to students. We'll give
 them a book that talks about it" and perhaps "Let's try it a few times."
 And that's it. It's one more invention technique - along with clustering
 and outlining.
 I'm all for clustering (even outlining, though not as a way to start)
 and many other useful techniques, but there is a wildness to freewriting
 that only comes if it's taken seriously. To take freewriting seriously or
 to harness its power is to insist on these three elements:
 (1) In its default plain form, it is pure exercise. It's not a way to write
 a draft of an essay. And it's not a struggle for magic, authenticity,
 or a full record of the mind. You've freewritten perfectly if you've
 simply written nonstop for ten minutes. Freewriting must be a
 space for anything to come up: triviality, garbage, nonsense.
 (2) Thus it must be private. You can't ask people to engage in (1) if
 they have to give what they write to someone else.
 (3) We don't get the health benefit of walking or jogging by sampling
 them just once or twice. Exercises don't bear fruit unless we do
 them over and over. Rich Haswell's essay in Nothing Begins with
 N shows that students tend at first to stay timidly within con-
 stricted limits. Pat Belanoff's essay there shows how freewriting
 is most fruitful as writers are more experienced. Yes, freewriting
 can pay off for scared or inexperienced students at first by opening
 the writing door to lots of words and "badness, but freewriting
 doesn't usually yield its best fruits at first.

  The point of freewriting as an exercise is to exploit what the mind
 can do with language and thinking when you can't plan or rehearse
 your words in your head before you write them - when you have to
 take what comes - especially when you have to keep writing after you
 feel you have run out of anything to say. It's about the mind's ability to
 come up with thoughts that surprise you and syntax that has energy
 and life. It's about blurting; truth; being unguarded.
 After people have done plenty of freewriting exercises , they can
 learn to apply what I call the "freewriting muscle" - the ability to come
 up with unplanned language and thinking - to different more difficult
 conditions such as writing essays and other non-throw-away pieces.
 (Some useful distinctions. Regular freewriting: what I just described.
 Focused freewriting: you try to stay on one topic. Public freewriting:
 you agree to share what you write.)

 Elbow, Peter. “Ken Macrorie's Commitment and the Need for What's Wild.” Writing on the Edge, vol. 15, no. 1, 2004, pp. 18–23. JSTOR, www.jstor.org/stable/43158861.

  Some students, especially those with
 weak writing skills, are so concerned
 with "correctness" when they write
 that they worry about violating rules
 and conventions while they are trying
 to express their thoughts; that is, they
 edit during composing (Perl, 1979;
 Shaughnessy, 1977)  after another of a sentence until they
 are satisfied that it is free of defects.
 By focusing attention on their writing
 as writing instead of on the topic at
 hand, they prevent themselves from
 generating and sustaining a train of
 ideas, thus slowing down or even
 halting their composing proce

  them by their
 teachers and texts. Having been
 taught, for example, that making and
 following an outline will ensure a
 coherent essay or theme, some stu-
 dents believe they should not write a
 word on their topic until they have
 constructed the type of formal outline
 they have seen on display in their
 composition books. They will laborto
 create a comprehensive and detailed
 plan to follow even when they have
 only a very faint and hazy conception
 of what they intend to say on their
 subject. Since trying to organize
 ideas that have not yet taken shape in
 one's mind can be a rather difficult
 task, these students may find them-
 selves stymied at the outset by the
 very tactic they hoped would lubricate
 their composing pro

  Freewriting
 Another effective exercise for over-
 coming writer's block is "freewriting"
 (sometimes called automatic writing).
 Have the student write, nonstop, for
 10 or 15 minutes on her topic or sub-
 ject of interest. The student should not
 pause to reconsider, revise, or correct
 anything she writes, and should not
 be at all concerned with such matters
 as grammar, style, or coherence; all
 energy and attention should be focused
 on the topic at hand. If the student
 gets stuck for something to say, she
 should write down whatever comes to
 mind- digressions, irrelevancies, and
 even pure nonsense are permitted.
 The only "rule" in freewriting is to
 keep writing, a task that students
 prone to blocking are liable to find
 quite difficult to accomplish at firs

 n. Sift-
 ing through the rubble after a free-
 writing, the writer is apt to find that
 she has dredged up chunks of ideas,
 knowledge, and memories that other-
 wise would not have reached the level
 of conscious awareness. She might
 also find that she has gained new
 insights into and perspectives on her
 subject, and has developed a clearer
 sense of what she wants to accomplish
 in her intended theme or essa

  Though it might sound ridiculous,
 students can sometimes overcome
 blocking by trying to write badly, that
 is, by intentionally violating the rules
 and conventions that bedevil them
 when they write (Freund, 1971). The
 teacher might therefore ask the stu-
 dent to write a composition that is
 riddled with grammar and spelling
 errors, or is incorrectly punctuated,
 or is very wordy, or is very boring- or
 is all of these. Students who habitually
 edit while composing may find this
 exercise to be a liberating experience,
 one that, like freewriting, is capable
 of bringing forth thoughts that other-
 wise would not have been verbalized

 Oliver, Lawrence J. “Helping Students Overcome Writer's Block.” Journal of Reading, vol. 26, no. 2, 1982, pp. 162–168. JSTOR, www.jstor.org/stable/40029248.

 ores: the writing produced by subjects trained in the
 use of freewriting heuristics was, when rated holistically, significantly better
 than that produced by subjects trained in the use of communications awareness/
 problem-solving heurist

 Training College Composition Students in the Use of Freewriting and Problem-Solving
Heuristics for Rhetorical Invention
Author(s): Thomas Lee Hilgers
Source: Research in the Teaching of English, Vol. 14, No. 4 (Dec., 1980), pp. 293-307
Published by: National Council of Teachers of English
Stable URL: https://www.jstor.org/stable/40170781
Accessed: 20-06-2019 18:54 UTC

You can talk about Writing Process theory

No citation needed

 Writing fluency depends : ed, the sooner I finish.'
 on effective cognitive strate- Blocked writers, on the
 gies. Studies using "talking
 aloud" strategies, whereby
 students vocalize their writing
 processes as they compose, in
 dicate that fluent writers de
 velop repertoires of problem
 solving strategies for figuring
 that networking with faculty
 members is one of the best
 ways to obtain traditionally
 unwritten information on
 habits and social skills that
 promote productive writing.
 These include ways of meet
 ing editors' expectations, of
 coping with rejection, of de
 veloping adaptive attitudes
 about collaboration, and of
 writing with a keen sense of
 out ways to compose t

 The New Faculty Member
 (Jossey-Bass, 1992) psychology professor


 In short, the OAV program recognizes
 what modern linguists tell us- namely, that
 talking comes naturally for students; writ-
 ing does not. Consequently, since talking is
 easier for students, it should serve as a pre-
 lude to writing, and when a student
 achieves smooth and melodious speech, he
 has achieved the basis for good writing.

 th an "inner ear"
 and eventually comes to realize the im-
 portance of the ear in writing and that
 good writing sounds good

  Originally, most of the students stated they
 had difficulty "putting their thoughts down
 on paper." At the end of the semester, most
 of the students said they now "found it easy
 to put thoughts down on pap

 Writing Writing and Talking Writing
Author(s): Ted D. DeVries
Source: Elementary English, Vol. 47, No. 8 (DECEMBER, 1970), pp. 1067-1071
Published by: National Council of Teachers of English
Stable URL: https://www.jstor.org/stable/41387748
Accessed: 20-06-2019 18:55 UTC


