Victoria Park is dead.

	Victoria Park:

		She is a woman from Junction Falls, Virginia.

		Junction Falls, Virginia:

			It's a fictitous location, defined tautalogically as the place where Victoria Park died.

			Fictitous:

				Fictitious meaning false. Meaning the opposite of truth,

					truth:

						Truth being the end goal of fiction. As in, a higher truth. We have to push beyond our initial understanding that "Victoria Park is dead" in order to achieve a higher truth.


		She is: 

			She is a woman. Or rather, she's the body of a woman. Her state of being is that of a body.

				She is a woman. Or rather, she's the body of a woman. Her state of being is that of a body:

					Or she has no state of being. Victoria Park was a woman.

						state of being:

							A place... or thing... contrasted with that which is not.

							that which is not:

								As in, Victoria Park is not cold and blue by the campfire while the rain water rolls over the gape of her open mouth, the wet grass pressed against her cheek. Victoria is not because there is not Victoria. Only Victoria's body.

								Victoria's body:

									Oh, well I suppose you're right — how could there be a Victoria's body without a Victoria?

									Victoria:

										Yes, it begs the question, who is Victoria, then, if not this dead person? This person which is not?

										Yes, it begs the question, who is Victoria, then if not this dead person? This person which is not?:

											Perhaps there are two Victoria's — the Victoria who posseses the dead body, and the Victoria who is no longer. The former Victoria stays behind, but the other Victoria leaves.

											former Victoria stays behind:

												Good question. What is the relation between the two Victoria's? Perhaps there's some kind of connection we're missing. What is this divided conciouss? Victoria of the body, and Victoria of the missing spirit.


												Victoria of the body:

													Victoria of the body is the Victoria that exists before and after there is a Victoria. It is the Victoria which exists as a sum of atom's, as the mass which predates her and was mildly changed in form to form a new girl, someonw with blonde hair, bright blue eyes, crawling around the lip of the tan carpet while her mother stirs the stew.


												Victoria of the missing spirit: 
													Victoria of the missing spirit is the Victoria which we know. It is the Victoria which has the narrative arc which begins at the hospital on 57th street in Brooklyn and ends in the woods of Junction Falls. It is the in the woods Victoria whose story we can tell, who we can love and cherish and think of kindly. We can not think kindly of atoms. We cannot conceive of atoms. They are infintesimal.

													infintesimal:

															.....:

															.

															.

															.

															.

															.

								


						Victoria Park was a woman:

							Victoria Park was a woman. She had brown hair and 5 plants. In the summers she traveled to the mountains and made avocado toast over a fire. When it rained she whispered, because she hated to break the the sound.

							brown hair:

								Brown hair being the same that was found on her body, by the other Victoria, the one who has the body.

	is dead:
		Is dead meaning currently, she is in the state of being dead. 


			Is dead meaning currently, she is in the state of being:

				Victoria Park is dead. Victoria Park was alive, but now she is dead.

					Victoria Park is:

						Yes, Victoria Park is, but she also was.

						she also was:

							Of course — this can be said of anyone, really. That they are and were. That they exist simulatenously in the past, as they do in the present.

							past:

								For instance, Victoria Park was once a little girl in a raincoat, who walked the trail at Junction Falls.

							present:
								Victoria Park is dead.



			dead:

				Dead being the result of death, that which happens once death has occured.

				death has occured:

					I'm not sure when death occurs. Maybe as the spirit leaves the body?

					as the spirit leaves the body:

						As the spirit leaves the body, meaning as Victoria leaves Victoria. 





